README.md, before:

# Wireguard Admin Scripts
#### Both of the scripts is copied and developed out from https://github.com/davidgross/ - so all creds to David Gross :)

Scripts to provision Wireguard clients. Written to run on the same Linux computer as the Wireguard server.
Focus is on daily use of the basics - add and delete peers/clients.

There are mainly 1 bash script and 2 template scripts to help you administer your wireguard instance:
- make_install.sh - let's user configure with their own ip's, file paths and more
- add-client-template.sh
- delete-client-template.sh

The make_install.sh generates two scripts based on user input and template scripts:
- add-client.sh
- delete-client.sh

And last but not least a directory called 'clients' containing:
- last-ip.txt - keeps state of last used wireguard peer's ip
- wg0-template.conf - template to generate a basic peer's wg0.conf
- wg0-template-prekey.conf - template to generate a peer's wg0.conf with a preshared key

### Pre requirements
1. Wireguard, installed on server and basic wg0 is configured (https://www.wireguard.com/install/).
2. qrencode, for more ease of use when generating and distributing client configurations. (`apt install qrencode`)

##### add-client
###### Description
Script to generate client keys and config files as well as set it up on the wireguard server.
The script also makes a check if your client name already is in use.
It generates a qr code in the terminal for easy setup on a mobile phone. It also saves a qr png for a more portable use.
All client configurations is stored on the server, by default under '/etc/wireguard/clients/'.

Supports;
- check if client/peer name already exists
- tunnel split (LAN) or route all traffic
- use preshared key or not

###### Variable Examples
```bash
WG_DIR='/etc/wireguard'
SERVER_ADDRESS='public ip'
SERVER_PORT='51820'
SERVER_WG_IF='wg0'
SERVER_PUBLIC_KEY='server_public.key'
SERVER_PUB_KEY=$(cat $WG_DIR/$SERVER_PUBLIC_KEY)
CLIENT_WG_IF='wg0'
CLIENT_DIR='/etc/wireguard/clients'
CLIENT_IP='192.168.5.' # Last octet is automagically filled with correct IP read from the file last-ip.txt
WG_TEMPLATE=$WG_DIR/wg0-template.conf
WG_TEMPLATE_PREKEY=$CLIENT_DIR/wg0-template-prekey.conf
LAST_IP=$CLIENT_DIR/last-ip.txt
CLIENT_NAME=''
CLIENTS=($(wg show $SERVER_WG_IF peers | awk '{print $2}' | tr -d '()' | sed '/^[[:blank:]]*$/d'))
WG_REREAD='YES'
WG_PREKEY='YES'
```

##### delete-client
###### Description
Script to delete the a client from the wireguard server. It also deletes any previously generated and stored configuration files such as public/private key and wg0.conf-file.


###### Variable Examples
```bash
WG_DIR='/etc/wireguard'
CLIENT_DIR='/etc/wireguard/clients'
SERVER_WG_CONF='wg0.conf'
SERVER_WG_IF='wg0'
ARRAY_FILE='/tmp/WG_array'
WG_DELETE_PEER='/tmp/WG_delete_peer'
```

#### Contributing
I'm open for any feedback. If you have any questions - don't hesitate to ask.
Feel free to copy and use whatever you need in your own script. :smiley:

Commit message:

Added some bulletpoints to avoid when setting up wireguard to README

README.md, after:

# Wireguard Admin Scripts
#### Both of the scripts are copied and developed out from https://github.com/davidgross/ - so all creds to David Gross :)

Scripts to provision Wireguard clients. Written to run on the same Linux computer as the Wireguard server.
Focus is on daily use of the basics - add and delete peers/clients.

There are mainly 1 bash script and 2 template scripts to help you administer your wireguard instance:
- make_install.sh - let's user configure with their own ip's, file paths and more
- add-client-template.sh
- delete-client-template.sh

The make_install.sh generates two scripts based on user input and template scripts:
- add-client.sh
- delete-client.sh

And last but not least a directory called 'clients' containing:
- last-ip.txt - keeps state of last used wireguard peer's ip
- wg0-template.conf - template to generate a basic peer's wg0.conf
- wg0-template-prekey.conf - template to generate a peer's wg0.conf with a preshared key

### Considerations
I've had BIG headaches trying to **configure** a **self-hosted VPN server**, and I've had many errors in the process,
so to help out some possible mistakes I will make a few bulletpoints to take into consideration that **might help**:

- Don't use a VPN while configuring Wireguard, it just makes things harder and can possibly trigger some bad config.
- Check that your **server ports** are **enabled and configured** (mostly 51820 by default or any other you use).
- Check that you have a **static DNS IP address** or better, a **static IP address**, this can be configured by your **ISP** 
by calling them, usually they will give you a DDNS, which is a **Dynamic public static IP**, so make sure you have a **DDNS config** 
for **updating** your **IP incase it changes**, or else you'll be doomed.
- Be sure to **adjust** your **DNS** from your server, so if you've changed your server's DNS (maybe to Cloudflare --> 1.1.1.1, 1.0.0.1) 
be sure to add that to the config file, if you haven't changed it, or you have no idea what this means, just put 'auto' and you will 
be fine.

### Pre requirements
1. Wireguard, installed on server and basic wg0 is configured (https://www.wireguard.com/install/).
2. qrencode, for more ease of use when generating and distributing client configurations. (`apt install qrencode`)

##### add-client
###### Description
Script to generate client keys and config files as well as set it up on the wireguard server.
The script also makes a check if your client name already is in use.
It generates a qr code in the terminal for easy setup on a mobile phone. It also saves a qr png for a more portable use.
All client configurations is stored on the server, by default under '/etc/wireguard/clients/'.

Supports;
- check if client/peer name already exists
- tunnel split (LAN) or route all traffic
- use preshared key or not

###### Variable Examples
```bash
WG_DIR='/etc/wireguard'
SERVER_ADDRESS='public ip'
SERVER_PORT='51820'
SERVER_WG_IF='wg0'
SERVER_PUBLIC_KEY='server_public.key'
SERVER_PUB_KEY=$(cat $WG_DIR/$SERVER_PUBLIC_KEY)
CLIENT_WG_IF='wg0'
CLIENT_DIR='/etc/wireguard/clients'
CLIENT_IP='192.168.5.' # Last octet is automagically filled with correct IP read from the file last-ip.txt
WG_TEMPLATE=$WG_DIR/wg0-template.conf
WG_TEMPLATE_PREKEY=$CLIENT_DIR/wg0-template-prekey.conf
LAST_IP=$CLIENT_DIR/last-ip.txt
CLIENT_NAME=''
CLIENTS=($(wg show $SERVER_WG_IF peers | awk '{print $2}' | tr -d '()' | sed '/^[[:blank:]]*$/d'))
WG_REREAD='YES'
WG_PREKEY='YES'
```

##### delete-client
###### Description
Script to delete the a client from the wireguard server. It also deletes any previously generated and stored configuration files such as public/private key and wg0.conf-file.


###### Variable Examples
```bash
WG_DIR='/etc/wireguard'
CLIENT_DIR='/etc/wireguard/clients'
SERVER_WG_CONF='wg0.conf'
SERVER_WG_IF='wg0'
ARRAY_FILE='/tmp/WG_array'
WG_DELETE_PEER='/tmp/WG_delete_peer'
```

#### Contributing
I'm open for any feedback. If you have any questions - don't hesitate to ask.
Feel free to copy and use whatever you need in your own script. :smiley:
